198 norm. [noos 1.

whole by an account oi the tite and timeret Augustus. These taslrs,
however, he did not live to accomplish. The History has the greater
ireshness and lulness, as being the record ol contemporaneous events,
while the Annals were made up froin the meagre recorda oi the past.
noan exhibit the saure striking peculiarities oi genius. The llistory
was published first, probably about tlte year a.o.100,in the early
partos the reign oi Trajan.

Sec. 2. Opus aggredior, etol. This section is a sort of surn-
tnzrry or table of coutents prefixed to the history oi the whole
period, describing its general character, and iudicating some ol the
leading events. The four princes who carne to their end by violence
(ferro) were Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and Domitian. The three civil
warrs (trina poetic for tria) were those between Otho and Vitellius,
between Vitellius and Vespasian, and between L. Antonius arrd
Domitian. In the general confusion incident to the civil wars just
nained. some ol the subject peoples very naturally took up arnis
against the governnrent, aa the Sarnratians (see 1 : ts; 3: ὃς 4: hel),
the Dacians (3: 46; 4: 54), who inflictcd as well as received defeats
(cladibus mutuis). Ol the rising ot the Suevi there is no further
mention in the history which is now extant. For the account oi one
pretended Nero, sech: 8. As there were confficting reports in re-
gard to the alcath oi Nero, various pretenders arose, as is usual in
such cases. The most fertile shores oi Canrpania were overwlreltned
in the destruction of Herculaneum and Pompeii by an eruption of
Mount Vesuvius, in the reign oi Titus (urbes is probably a spurious
reading). The capitol was burued by the Vitellian soldiera in their
contlict with those of Vespasian (3:71). The slauglrters on the
clitis or rocky islands (scopuli) were those of political criminals.
Society being divided into bitter factione, the governrnent corrupt
arrd cruel, and carried on largely through spies, any sort of enri-
ncnce in one, even in virtue, excited suspicion against nim, as being
‹langerous to the wicked rnen in authority, aud rendered him liablc
to be arraigned as such by some one of the troops oi intonuere
plelatores) hanging around the court, and arnong whom the highest
houors and rewards oi tlte atate (sacerdotia, consulatus, dc), were
divided. Woe to the state where virtue is treated asnerimel The
phrase, agerent . . . terrore, refers evidently to the violent and high·

handed proceedings of these informers, who had obtained power ttt ⁶

court (interiorem potentiam), and may be rendered ‘⁴ forced. over·
turned all things by hatred and tear.'' The second verb ir added ιι

 

